<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Coke Cake Instructions</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../Styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="../../Styles/page-template.xpgt" />
</head>

<body>
<div>
<h2>To-Die-For Coke&#174; Cake, cont.</h2>

<table>
<tr>
     <th>COKE CAKE INSTRUCTIONS -- CAKE</th>
</tr>


<tr>    <td>&nbsp;1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees.</td></tr>
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;1. Spray cake pan with cooking spray.</td></tr>
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;2. In bowl 1, combine (optionally sift) sugar (2 c) and flour (2 c)</td></tr>	 
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;3. Add marshmallows (1 &frac12; c).</td></tr>	 
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;4. In a pan, mix butter (1 c or &frac12; c), oil (&frac12; c), cocoa (&frac34; c) and Coke (1 c).  Bring to a boil and power over contents in bowl 1, mix well.</td>	 </tr>
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;5. In bowl 2, mix baking soda (1 tsp) with buttermilk (&frac12; c).  Add this to bowl 1 mixture.</td>	 </tr>
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;6. Add eggs (2) and vanilla (1 tsp) to bowl 1's mixture.</td>	 </tr>
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;7. Lick spoon.</td></tr>
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;8. If there is any batter left after licking spoon, pour into cake pan, bake 35-45 minutes.</td>	 </tr>
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;9. While cake is baking, prepare frosting.</td>	 </tr>
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;8. Frost immediately.</td></tr>	 
 
<tr>
     <th>COKE CAKE INSTRUCTIONS -- FROSTING !</th>
</tr>
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;1. In the saucepan over medium-high heat, mix together the butter (&frac12; c), cocoa (&frac14; c) and Coke (&frac12; c).</td></tr>
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;2. Stir constantly until the butter melts or mixture comes to a boil.  Remove from heat.</td></tr>	 
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;3. Add confectioner's sugar (4 c) slowly to the frosting mixture and mix thoroughly.</td></tr>	 
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;4. Lick spoon.</td></tr>	 
<tr>    <td>&nbsp;4. If there is any frosting left after licking the spoon, frost the cake as soon as it is removed from oven.</td></tr>	 
	 
</table>


</div>
</body>
</html>