<?xml version="1.1" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>GLOSSARY</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="../Styles/page-template.xpgt" />
</head>

<body>
<div>
<h1>GLOSSARY</h1>
<table>
  <tr>
    <td><b>Term</b></td>
    <td><b>Definition</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Artifact</td>
    <td>An item that is being version controlled, such as a file, source code, a document, etc.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Branch, Develop</td>
    <td>A "buffer" child branch that is typically used as a child of a master/main branch and as the parent for individual developer branches during a period of time, such as a "sprint".  As each developer finishes up their feature branch, it is merged into the develop branch and, at the end of the sprint, the develop branch is then rolled up into the master/main branch. Having a develop branch between a parent and child provides a safety net to help preserve a clean master parent.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Branch, Feature</td>
    <td>A child branch usually worked by a single person for a single feature or bug.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Branch, Master/Main</td>
    <td>The primary, yea-verily ground-truth of a repository.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Branch, Parent</td>
    <td>A branch from which other (child) branches are created and into which those child branches are expected to be merged.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Copy, Local</td>
    <td>An artifact that is stored on a user's machine/laptop.  It usually represents a copy of the master artifact and which a user works on.</td>
  </tr> 
  <tr>
    <td>Copy, Master/Main</td>
    <td>An artifact that represents the most-recent or published value.  The master copy is stored on a remote repository and may also be backed up to a secondary off-line location.</td>
  </tr>  
  <tr>
    <td>CM, Configuration Managmement</td>
    <td>A team that maintains and, sometimes, enforces and implements rules on a set of artifacts.</td>
  </tr>  
  <tr>
    <td>Merge/Pull Request</td>
    <td>A capability provided by different Git implementations to notify recipients that a child branch is ready to be merged into a parent branch. </td>
  </tr>

  <tr>
    <td>Push</td>
    <td>To upload artifacts to the remote repository.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>QA/Quality Assurance</td>
    <td>A team or process of checking that a set of artifacts meets expectations.  A QA team may also create and execute various types of tests against the artifacts.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Repo/Repository</td>
    <td>This is where the artifacts are stored.  This is usually a file or version control service of some type.</td>
  </tr>  
  <tr>
    <td>Repository, Local</td>
    <td>The artifacts that are stored on a user's laptop. </td>
  </tr>   
  <tr>
    <td>Repository, Remote</td>
    <td>The main repository where a project or company's files are officially stored.  This is usually a large file server running in the cloud or in an IT closet.  It is usually backed up nightly and may be backed up to an off-site location.</td>
  </tr>  
  <tr>
    <td>Test, Regression</td>
    <td>Usually refers to testing artifacts at a medium-level with previously-developed tests to ensure that the basic artifacts work as expected from the last time a regression test was executed.</td>
  </tr>  
  <tr>
    <td>Test, Unit</td>
    <td>Usually refers to testing artifacts at a very low-level to ensure that artifacts work as required.  Should include positive and negative testing.</td>
  </tr>  
  <tr>
    <td>Test, Integration</td>
    <td>Usually refers to testing artifacts at a high-level from one repo or team with another team or company's artifacts.</td>
  </tr>  
  



</table>
</div>
</body>
</html>