<?xml version="1.1" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Branching Workflow</title>
  <!--link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" /-->
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/table.css" type="text/css" />

  <link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="../Styles/page-template.xpgt" />
</head>

<body>
<div>

<h3>Terms</h3>
Before presenting the workflows, a few definition/terms are provided below.  Note that all of the definitions that are presented in each chapter are duplicated at the end of the book in a Glossary chapter.
<table>
  <tr>
    <td><b>Term</b></td>
    <td><b>Definition</b></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Artifact</td>
    <td>An item that is being version controlled, such as a file, source code, a document, etc.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Master Copy</td>
    <td>An artifact that represents the most-recent or published value.  The master copy is stored on a remote repository and may also be backed up to a secondary off-line location.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Local Copy</td>
    <td>An artifact that is stored on a user's machine/laptop.  It usually represents a copy of the master artifact and which a user works on.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Repository</td>
    <td>This is where the artifacts are stored.  This is usually a file or version control service of some type.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Remote Repository</td>
    <td>The main repository where a project or company's files are officially stored.  This is usually a large file server running in the cloud or in an IT closet.  It is usually backed up nightly and may be backed up to an off-site location.</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Local Repository</td>
    <td>The artifacts that are stored on a user's laptop. </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Push</td>
    <td>To upload artifacts to the remote repository.</td>
  </tr>
</table>

</div>
</body>
</html>