<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Git Commands</title>
  <!--link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" /-->
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../Styles/table.css" type="text/css" />

  <link rel="stylesheet" type="application/vnd.adobe-page-template+xml" href="../../Styles/page-template.xpgt" />
</head>

<body>
<div>
  <table>
    <tr>
      <td><b>Command</b></td>
      <td><b>Local or Remote</b></td>
      <td><b>Definition</b></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>clone</td>
      <td>remote</td>
      <td>Copies down a remote repo to your laptop.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>status</td>
      <td><i><b>local</b></i></td>
      <td>Displays information about your local repo only.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>remote update</td>
      <td>remote</td>
      <td>Updates your local ledger with new branch information from the remote repo.</td>
    </tr>    
    <tr>
      <td>branch</td>
      <td>local</td>
      <td>Displays branches that are part of your local repo.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>checkout</td>
      <td><i><b>local</b></i></td>
      <td>Changes to or creates a new branch on your local repo.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>add</td>
      <td>local</td>
      <td>Moves your local changes to the local staging area on your local repo</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>commit</td>
      <td>local</td>
      <td>Moves your local changes to the commit area on your local area and creates a commit ID.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>pull</td>
      <td>remote</td>
      <td>Pulls down and attempts to merge in the latest version of a branch from the remote repo down to your local repo.</td>
    </tr>                    
    <tr>
      <td>fetch</td>
      <td>remote</td>
      <td>Fetches remote information about the latest version of a branch from the remote down to your local repo for comparisson.  Does NOT make any changes to your local repo.</td>
    </tr>                    
    <tr>
      <td>push</td>
      <td>remote</td>
      <td>Pushes local branch from local repo up to the same branch on remote repo.</td>
    </tr>  

  </table>
  <p>In the remaining sub-sections, you are encouraged to follow along on your laptop.  You can refer to Appendix A: Installing Git which will walk you through installing Git on your laptop, setting you up with a Git account on GitHub, and creating a dummy repo on GitHub.</p>
  <p>Each command is shown with its basic syntax, an optional diagram showing the before and after effect of the command, a description, a nominal syntax example, an example view of the command's state in Visual Studio Code, and an optional set of warnings about the command to be wary about.</p>

</div>
</body>
</html>
